Thus, the primary objectives of this research are to identify the various attributes for construction delay, to identify the relationship between these attributes by statistical 
methods and to predict the impact of these identified attributes on construction delay using a regression model in the Indian construction sector.

Research conducted in this area is broadly divided into two streams—one stream relating to attributes and factors that cause project delays and second stream relating to delay analysis.

However, the findings that other high ranked factors in UAE had no significant impact in KSA construction projects clearly highlight the fact that factors causing construction
delay cannot be considered common across the countries.

Egyptian construction projects concluded that different parties of construction don't agree on the relative importance of various factors of delay, mostly blaming each other of 
delays using importance index and spearman rank correlation

RAF,PA,,PD

Work is yet to be done in identifying the relationship between the various reasons of delay and also prediction of impact on that delay.
A survey of construction professionals representing various stakeholders involved in construction projects in India was conducted.
Factor analysis was used to reduce the attributes for investigating the clustering effects while regression analysis was performed for deriving a predictive model based on the best
fit attributes for forecasting time performance in the project.

Descriptive statistics namely Relative Importance Index(RII) has been used to highlight the relative importance of attributes as perceived by the respondents
An attempt to achieve this multiple regression analysis is considered a most suitable method to derive the relationship between the attributes
The attributes are arranged in ascending order of ranks, attribute with highest RII or rank 1 indicates that it has the maximum impact on the delay while the attribute with lowest rank
indicates that it has the least impact on delay duration.
To identify if there is a relationship between the selected attributes, Spearman rank correlation is used (Field, 2005). It assesses how well the relationship between two
variables can be described using a monotonic function. The sign of the Spearman correlation indicates the direction of association between X and Y. A Spearman correlation of zero 
indicates that there is no tendency for Y to either increase or decrease when X increases.
2009). In order to evaluate the
adequacy of the survey data for factor analysis, Kaiser–
Meyer–Olkin (KMO) test and Bartlett's test of sphericity
(Field, 2005) were conducted.
Principal component analysis is used
to reduce numerous correlated attributes into much fewer un-
derlying factors.
By calculating Pearson
correlation using SPSS we can estimate the extent of correlation
among various variables.
For reliability analysis, which is required to ensure
the construct of the model over time (i.e. consistency of mea-
sured attributes and scale), Cronbach's alpha test was per-
formed on entire data as well as attributes in each factor.
a rule of thumb applies to
most situations with the following ranges: Ca> 0.9 denotes
excellent, 0.9 >Ca> 0.8 as good, 0.8 >Ca> 0.7 as acceptable,
0.7 >Ca> 0.6 as questionable, 0.6 >Ca> 0.5 as poor and
0.5 >Ca denotes unacceptable
the reasons of delay evolving from factor
analysis are further analysed by linear multiple regression for
potentially developing a predictive model in Indian construc-
tion context. While factor analysis depicts the existence of
clusters of large correlation coefficients with measurable
underlying dimensions, such dimensions (or factors) do not
possess predictive power of any order on the measured phe-
nomena.
Value of R2 provides a good gauge of substantive size of rela-
tionship between the predicting or dependent variable and the
independent variables.
In this research, the parametric test was conducted by
analysing the homogeneity of variance (Levene's test) on the
selected attributes before performing the regression analysis
(Field, 2005). The results of Levene's test being significant
(pb0.05) suggest the rejection of the null hypothesis that
variances between variables are zero and thus the regression
analysis is tenable.
Y = a + b1X1 + b2X2 + ...bmXm +- e
where Y is dependent variable, a is constant and intercepts at Y
axis; b1 to bm are estimated regression coefficients; X1 to Xm
are values of predictor or independent variables, e is error.
Forward stepwise process is used to formulate the regression
model. Since it may not be the best fitting model, predictor var-
iables with significant correlation with dependent variable is
identified using Spearman correlation and models are again for-
mulated with forward pass backward stepwise and forced entry.
Out of formed models, the optimum model is selected based
on strength of correlation (R2
) which is a direct measure of %
variance explained.
